>> Sarah Drasner: Let's say you're like
me and you like working with JavaScript.
I was just mentioning to someone earlier
I love JavaScript for animation.
JavaScript is really really powerful for
animation.
So what if we wanna use one
of these transition hooks but
we wanna use it with
JavaScript instead of CSS.
We're allowed to because we
can use JavaScript ticks.
So here are all the hooks available to us,
we don't have to use all of these.
It's just like the life cycle hooks,
we don't have to plug in any of them.
We can plug into ones that we want or not.
So these transition hooks are beforeEnter,
enter, afterEnter,
enterCancelled before leave leave
after leave leave cancelled.
It's important to rate
the binding CSS false.
So that's you're letting view know, okay,
we're not gonna be using CSS for this.
If you see anything CSS around
that has to do with these namings,
ignore them we're using
JavaScript right now.
So that's to avoid any kind of like
race conditions or collisions.
Basically make sure that you're not
naming things the same thing anyway.
But it's possible you're
on a giant code base and
you don't know that there's
a collision happening.
So these are the hooks,
of course we've got that vion or at,
and you can name these whatever you want.
I just was naming them things
that made sense to me.
So the most basic example here,
we've got that transition component,
we've got an enter, and we've got a leave.
Those are gonna be the hooks that
we're going to use in order to
create our animation.
And we're gonna say CSS false,
and we put the element there.
So that's the most basic example.
So we can plug into and inside our
methods because they're basically now
methods that we're going to use.
We're gonna say enter el,
we have access to that element.
So that is always gonna come through,
and then we've got done, as well.
So we've got a let it know when it's done.
Part of the reason we
have to do this is so
that those transition modes can work,
right.
We've got those transition modes that
are firing after the other thing is done.
We need to let it know that
the other thing is done.
So we have leaveEl and we've got el and
done and we're passing those in.
So any time we need to use like most
animation libraries need are referenced to
work off of, that where you're gonna use
that el in order to create that reference.
>> Sarah Drasner: So now you actually
know fully how this was done.
First, you knew how
the input part was done,
now you know how all of this was done.
I'm writing in here, it's like hi,
we already had lunch, so no more tacos.
>> Sarah Drasner: And I'm gonna write it,
and you probably have guessed that
I didn't have it into the dom
until I pressed the button.
And then we can use that hook to have it
cascade in and bounce into the location.
The other thing I'm doing is I'm
using a library called GreenSock,
which let's me save from.
It's gonna take it from a bunch values and
then bring it to wherever it needs to be.
So I don't need to specifically say
go over here, and go over here, and
go over here,
that wouldn't make a lot of sense.
I'm saying go from all of these different
locations and come to this area.
So this a lot of code, don't worry
we're gonna zoom in to some of it and
then we're gonna look at it
a little bit more closely.
In this before enter,
remember we had a before enter hook,
there might be some values that you
need to apply to your animation.
And in this case, for those letters,
I wanted them to do lots of weird things.
I wanted them to transform in space,
preserve 3D, and
bounce around in this like,
I didn't want them just bouncing.
I wanted them bouncing and spinning and
doing all sorts of crazy things.
So the things that I had to do was using
this thing in green called TweenMax.set,
which basically applies a bunch of
characteristics to the animation
right before it gets going.
I could also do this in CSS, I wouldn't
necessarily need to use it before,
enter hook, if I didn't want to.
But sometimes I do it this way because
these properties don't actually do
anything until I start animating.
So it's possible that if I'm sharing
the code base with someone else and
they come along and they're like,
what's all this stuff.
And then they delete these
these properties, and
they're like still looks the same,
we're good.
That's totally possible or me, later
like a year later is like what is that,
I don't know and
removes it and then I'm like,
the ammunition break that's weird,
why did that happen?
So sometimes, keeping them together makes
a lot of sense because you're actually
saying like,
these are the things I need just for this.
The other thing that's really nice
about it is if I need to adjust it,
I'm not going back and forth from the CSS
to the JavaScript and back again.
I'm just staying directly
with the JavaScript code and
I'm making my small changes here.
I think I started off with
like 600 perspective, and
I was able to slowly adjust
until I got what I wanted.
So then, in the enter, and
then el, I'm passing in that el.,
and I'm doing a for loop, and
I'm splitting the words apart.
And I'm able to say on
the z: access do some
Math.random and use this bouncing ease.
And I'm plotting this along a timeline
that I have created that has labels.
But we're not gonna delve
too far into this library,
that's like very library
specific code there.
So I'm able to create a timeline and
do a lot of calculations on there
that I need for my animation.
And we're hanging everything
off of that enter.
So everything kinda plugs into that enter.
So we mentioned this before,
we kinda went over that before.
The other thing that's worth
mentioning is I had done a bunch.
Here are some of the variables that
I was creating to use my animation.
But the most important variable of
all is I'm creating a timeline,
and I'm passing in this onComplete done.
So I've mentioned before that
we need to pass in the el, and
we need to pass in done.
We need to let the animation know when
it's done executing to call done.
But some animation libraries need you
to pass that into a timeline, I think,
anime has something like this.
GreenSock has something like this,
mo.js has something like this.
So in some instances, just writing done
in there is not gonna work because it
doesn't execute the code that way.
It's going to grab everything
that's on that time line, and
we need to pass it in the way that's
kinda native to that library.
So if you're working with
an external JavaScript library,
a lot of the more sophisticated ones
will offer you some sort of hook for
when it's completed snd that's
where you should put the done.